
Interview Questions Q/A

ACCENTURE INTERVIEW - OLD
1) Mulesoft API end to end process. 
ANS:
it may be the mixed of two questions.
API LIFE CYCLE?
--> create RAML - RESTFUL API MODELLING LANGUAGE  - we provide resource, input, output, datatype
-> 	Publish RAML to exchange
-> Review RAML and getting the feedback
-> if positive - build stage else go to design stage ie., RAML 
-> In build stage we do the API development.
-> After development of API we do the testing stage - MUNIT testing
->  we will secure API's applying policy like client id enforcement, ratelimiting etc
-> After deploying in cloudHub -> 	we should moniter application in cloudHub 
--> troubleshooting - bugs and then managing the API's.

generally we will call an API using HTTP requestor connector
form process to system and from experience to process layer 
generally we will call using HTTP requestor.
some time we develop connector like we create for system layer and publish to exchange.
use that connector in process layer.

2) traits vs fragments. 
Ans:
TRAITS:
traits is reusable component where we can define headers, queryParams, URI params inside traits.

Traits is used for headers and queryParameters -- 
Traits should be imported using "Traits" keyword(by creating key: !include filePath) 
and it is referred using "is" keyword with these[]( is:[headersname,.....,...]traits:
for calling the external traits we will use is: [] keyword.A trait can have all kinds of attributes.

Traits are used to store common headers or queryParams or UriParams.
we can include / refer traits by using the traits: keyword.
traits:
  correlation-id-header:
and to include traits inside resource we use is:[correlation-id-header] keyword

FRAGMENTS:
fragments are the reusable components of RAML. To make design and build of a resusable API even quicker and easier.
categorized into two types - local and global
and types of fragments are
Traits
ResourceType
Library
DataType
user documentation
Example
Annotation Type
Security Scheme

how do we do validation in raml? 
Header and queryParam validation is done by editing the APIKIT router configuration after importing RAML in anypoint studio.

how do we hand over raml to client after designing. 
API Specification Portal
MuleSoft Anypoint Exchange: If using MuleSoft, you can publish the RAML API to Anypoint Exchange, where clients can access the API specification, documentation, and other resources.

post vs put vs  patch. 
1. HTTP PUT 
This updates or Creates a resource. It is idempotent. Multiple identical requests will update the same resource. 
 
2. HTTP POST 
This is used to create new resources. It is not idempotent, making two identical POST will duplicate the resource creation. 

3. HTTP PATCH 
The PATCH method applies partial modifications to a resource. 

https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-the-difference-between-put-post-and-patch-in-restful-api/

need of put & post. 

foreach vs parallel foreach  

for each process is single threaded and it process the records one by one and parallel for 
each is multi threaded and it process multiple records at the same time in parallel way
parallel ForEach - o/p- the output of this scope is the collection of the results of each route and the aggregated results will be in the same order they were, prior to the split. 
for each - o/p same orginal payload it doesnt modify the payload 
foreach
payload after and before for each - same
Variable after and before for each - changes(what ever we will configure in last loop )
parallel for each
payload after and before parallel for each - changes(collection of all payload in parallel for each)
variable after and before for each - same
the variable created inside the parallel for each will not exists after parallel for each

scatter-gather. 

https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-runtime/latest/scatter-gather-concept

spike control vs rate limiting policy. 

Munits. 

deployment model (through jenkinspipeline).   

vcore vs worker. 
Workers give the computational skills to the application. 
vcore is memory size that is assigned to a worker(mule instance) like we assign 8gb or 16gb ram to a system.
Increasing the number of vcores from lower to higher is vertical scaling.
Increasing the workers is horizantal scaling like if one worker handles 1000 requests per minute then 2 workers handles 2000 requests per min.

error handling. 

VM vs flow refference. 

Active MQ. 

issues faced in production,deployment. 

object store,cache. 

load balancer. 

data weave (string to array, reverse, multivalue selector). 

scenario based questions on try scope,scatter-gather, re-connection stratgy. 

self Intro 

roles and responsibilites in project 

message structure in IBM mq? 

default port no for IBM mq? 

what are the basic steps to develop an API? 

how can you secure your password? 

what is the pooling mechanism? it is like how can you secure a password 

what are the 5 ways of security authentications 

what is TLS and MTLS? 

what is the keyStore and trustStore? 

error handlings in mule?  

have you heard about API Groups? 

have you develop any custom connector? 

dataweave streaming in mule?   

xplain Oauth2.0 provider in mule? why we are using? 

what are grant Types in Oauth2.0? 

rate limiting policy? 

what is horizontal and vertical scaling? 

xplain batch processing? 

what happens if a batch is having 200 records if one got failed? 

how many records can we process in a batch? 

can we call batch fom trigger? 

map vs mapObject? 

what is Idempotency?what is this use 

what is scheduler? 

which flow can we call from lookup function? 

how to handel error in process layer? 

what is the output for for each? 

what is the file we used to secure password? 

what is CI/Cd pipeline?have you used in your project? 

how to improve the performance of an application? 

how do you setup the dependencies in your project? 

if you need to save the state of the transaction and then resume it if it fails? 

what is synchronous and asynchronous?  

what is diff b/w api kit router and api ki console? 
  
can we validate the incoming payload from RAML? 

what dataweave inbuild functions you used? 

how can we call flows from dataweave? 

have you involved in documentation side or deployment side? 

have you created any proxys in api manager? 

ACCENTURE INTERVIEW - NEW - ME
intro?
tell me about project?
RAML - traits, datatypes?
What are policies are used in your project - clientId enforcement, basic authentication, Oath policy.?

How can we define multiple queryParams in URL?
ANS: To send multiple query parameters we use the "&" ampercent symbol. 
example: http://localhost:8080/covid/v1/cases?place=texas&zip=839102
to access the particular queryParams we use attributes.queryParams.zip in code

What kind deployment models are there in mulesoft?
Why we use API LED Architecture?
More about designing RAML like syntax based questions that are used in traits and datatypes?
Regarding Oath policies?
Who is your Oath provider?
Which third party vendor for getting Oath token?
API auto discovery?
How to trigger an API what is the connector used to trigger an API.?
Syntax FOR FRAMING URL?
What methods are used for the specific use case?
Have you worked on file FTP and SFTP connectors?
What are the environments that are using in your projects?


INFOSYS INTERVIEW:
self Intro 
Components in raml? 
api life cycle 
whats are the ways to import raml to the studio and explain them 

apikit console --scenario based 
In API implementation mule provide APIKit router for routing messages, validating payloads, headers, queryParams and URI params against the RAML.


api exchange, cloudhub --scenario based 
how scaling can be done 
about logs --scenario based 
dataweave -- on map, odd even, pluck in playground 
diff between rest and soap 
parallel for each --scenario based 
database connector --scenario based 
batch processing --scenario based 
http listner configurations 
policies used in project 
how do you protect your code in project 
how do you get api instance id 
how do you connect your runtime api to configure policies 
how do you generate flows in studio if they are not generated automatically 
error handling --scenario based 
Type of error handling used in your project 
api led connectivity --scenario based 
salesforce connector 
cache and object store 
munits in project 
flows in project 
ssl and tls 
keystore and Truststore and how do you get keys 
how to configure ssl and tls in listner 
how do you update raml and import


hi everyone 
I am vamsi
Iam from nellore 
i studied bachlor of technology in electronics and communication engineering from svce in tirupathi.
I have 3 + years of experience at capgemini and Iam having 2+ years relevant experience in mulesoft.
Currently iam working  as mulesoft developer in capgemini and 

coming to my project I am working in telecom domian project and the  client is CWC - cable and wireless
for that particular client I am working in project called cco digital
and my resposibity in capegemini is to develop design and testing API's using mulesoft software.
my project follows API life cycle to develop API's.

i have worked on a api called Post refund in which we have used api led connectivity structure 
in these we have three layers 
redmound ux as experience layers 
payment management biz as process layer 
aria management sys as a system layer 
in this we get inputs from frontend called fastgo payments 

From the frontend we get required inputs like business id, payment id, targetSystem which are passed into the ux, 
In ux we do the validations for inputs and later it is routed to the biz layer using request connector. 

In payement management biz depending upon the business id and target system we will route it to the sys layer 

aria management system is connected to the backend and retrive the data, 
in this we mapped using transform message and created a request to the backend to get the account no and details which is required for refund 
after getting the acc details we have done the validations for date. 
after the validations are done and again we mapped with the account details and payement id using transform message and created request to the backend 
now the refund is done from the backend and we get response like "refund is Intiated". 

transform message takes the request message and transformed into required mule format.

i have worked on a api called get_checkSimcardTechnology in which we have used api led connectivity structure 
in these we have three layers 
customer-information ux as experience layers 
resource-inventory-management biz as process layer 
tnm resource inventory management sys as a system layer 
in this we get inputs from frontend called API consumer

From the api consumer we get required inputs like business id, service number, physicalResourceId which are passed into the ux and 
validate profile of mobile service[if it is prepaid or postpaid] and indicate if the customer have simcard with LTE technology or not, 
In ux we do the validations for inputs and later it is routed to the biz layer using request connector. 

In resource-inventory-management biz depending upon the business id and service number(queryParam),physicalResourceId we will route it to the sys layer 

aria management system is connected to the backend and retrive the data, 
business id and service number(queryParam) is passed to retrive data from get:/logicalResouce from sys
business id and physicalresouceId is passed to retrive data from get:/physicalResource from sys


in this we mapped using transform message and created a request to the backend to get the account no and details which is required for refund 
after getting the acc details we have done the validations for date. 
after the validations are done and again we mapped with the account details and payement id using transform message and created request to the backend 
now the refund is done from the backend and we get response like "refund is Intiated". 

transform message takes the request message and transformed into required mule format.


Cognizant walkin face to face interview 
 questions :
Introduce your self
Scatter gather and choice Router difference
For each and parallel for each difference
Object store and where we you use object store in your project
What are the environments in your project
Have you worked on raml
Traits, fragments, datatypes
Difference between traits and fragments
How define policies in RAML
Process of Deployment of projects in various environments in your project
How scatter gather process input payload
Does instance Id is same for all environments in your project or differs and also policies like client I'd enforcement
What are the connectors you have worked on 
In database connector how do you filter or configure  the query by using input query params or uri params 
What are the error handling strategies you have used in your project and tell me about raise error on error propagate and on error continue and difference between them
DataWeave coding:
Question1
Convert json to xml and filter the XML payload like <employee I = 9></employee>
Question 2
Compare the input object of two key value pairs where value is separated by | like a||b|c and if it is empty or null return false message


Deloitte mulesoft interview
TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF
SDLC - SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT LIFE CYCLE
FOR EACH AND PARALLEL FOR EACH AND DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THEM
TELL ME ABOUT FRAGMENTS IN RAML
HOW DO YOU ENCRPT DATA IN PROPERTY FILES 
WHICH CODE QUALITY TOOL YOU HAVE USED IN YOUR PROJECT
WHAT ARE THE CHANGES ARE DONE AT THE CODE LEVEL 
WHILE MIGRATING FROM CLOUD 1.0 AND CLOUD HUB 2.0
WHICH RUNTIME VERSION HAVE YOU USED IN YOUR PROJECT
WHICH MAVEN VERSION HAVE YOU USED IN YOUR AND TELL ME ABOUT MULE MAVEN PLUGIN
WHAT ARE THE CONNECTORS HAVE YOU USED IN YOUR PROJECT
WHY WE GENERATE JARS USING JFROG 
WHAT IS THE CODE VERSION / REPO TOOL YOU HAVE USED IN YOUR PROJECT
HOW DO YOU PASS PROPERTY VALUES WHILE RUNNING MULE PROJECT
DO YOU KNOW ABOUT MULE-ARTIFACT.JSON
TELL ME THE SYNTAX TO READ THE SECURE PROPERTIES FROM THE PROPERTY FILE
AND HOW DO YOU ACCESS PROPERTIES
WHAT IS THE DEPLOYMENT TOOL YOU HAVE USED IN YOUR PROJECT 
AND WHAT IS JENKINS FILE
WHAT THE ENVIRONMENTS THAT YOU HAVE USED FOR CODE REPO'S
What is the output format after database select operation in Mule?

























